:''See also [[Custom GUI items]] and [[Defining items]].''

The '''GUI configuration''' is defined in the <code>config.yml</code>. These define the static UI elements such as the back button, quest locked display etc. All options accept the standard ItemStack definition format described in [[Defining items]].

== Back button ==
:''<code>gui.back-button</code>''
The back button displayed within sub menus.
```yaml
gui:
  ...
  back-button:
    name: "&cReturn"
    lore:
    - "&7Return to the categories menu."
    type: "ARROW"
```

== Page previous ==
:''<code>gui.page-prev</code>''
The previous page button displayed on paiginated menus.
```yaml
gui:
  ...
  page-prev:
    name: "&7Previous Page"
    lore:
    - "&7Switch the page to page &c{prevpage}."
    type: "FEATHER"
```
The <code>{prevpage}</code> variable represents the page number for the previous page.


== Page next ==
:''<code>gui.page-next</code>''
The next page button displayed on paiginated menus.
```yaml
gui:
  ...
  page-next:
    name: "&7Next Page"
    lore:
    - "&7Switch the page to page &c{nextpage}."
    type: "FEATHER"
```
The <code>{nextpage}</code> variable represents the page number for the next page.

== Page description ==
:''<code>gui.page-next</code>''
The current page item displayed on paginated menus. The amount of this item will automatically update on the page number.
```yaml
gui:
  ...
  page-desc:
    name: "&7Page &c{page}"
    lore:
    - "&7You are currently viewing page &c{page}."
    type: "PAPER"
```
The <code>{page}</code> variable represents the page number for the current page.

== Quest locked display ==
:''<code>gui.quest-locked-display</code>''
The item is used to represent locked quests. A quest is locked if its [[Creating a quest#Requirements|requirements]] are not met.
```yaml
gui:
  ...
  quest-locked-display:
    name: "&c&lQuest Locked"
    lore:
    - "&7You have not completed the requirements"
    - "&7for this quest (&c{quest}&7)."
    - ""
    - "&7Requires: &c{requirements}"
    - "&7to be completed to unlock."
    type: "RED_STAINED_GLASS_PANE"
```

The <code>{quest}</code> variable represents the quest [[Creating a quest#name|display name]], with its formatting stripped. 

The <code>{questid}</code> variable represents the quest ID. 

The <code>{requirements}</code> variable represents the display names of the quests needed to unlock this quest. By default, this name is truncated to show only the first quest, with a number after (e.g. "Example II +4 more"). This behaviour is defined at [[Basic-options#GUI-truncate-requirements|Basic options ยง GUI-truncate requirements]]

== Quest permission display ==
:''<code>gui.quest-permission-display</code>''
The item is used to represent quests which the player does not have permission to start.
```yaml
gui:
  ...
  quest-permission-display:
    name: "&6&lNo Permission"
    lore:
    - "&7You do not have permission for this"
    - "&7quest (&6{quest}&7)."
    type: "BROWN_STAINED_GLASS_PANE"
```

The <code>{quest}</code> variable represents the quest [[Creating a quest#name|display name]], with its formatting stripped. 

The <code>{questid}</code> variable represents the quest ID. 

== Quest cooldown display ==
:''<code>gui.quest-cooldown-display</code>''
The item is used to represent quests which are repeatable, the player has completed, but are on cooldown.
```yaml
gui:
  ...
  quest-cooldown-display:
    name: "&e&lQuest On Cooldown"
    lore:
    - "&7You have recently completed this quest"
    - "&7(&e{quest}&7) and you must"
    - "&7wait another &e{time} &7to unlock again."
    type: "ORANGE_STAINED_GLASS_PANE"
```

The <code>{quest}</code> variable represents the quest [[Creating a quest#name|display name]], with its formatting stripped. 

The <code>{questid}</code> variable represents the quest ID. 

The <code>{time}</code> variable represents the formatted time remaining until the cooldown period is over. This can be configured in the messages section.

== Quest completed display ==
:''<code>gui.quest-completed-display</code>''
The item is used to represent quests which are completed and not repeatable.
```yaml
gui:
  ...
  quest-completed-display:
    name: "&a&lQuest Complete"
    lore:
    - "&7You have completed this quest"
    - "&7(&a{quest}&7) and cannot."
    - "&7repeat it."
    type: "GREEN_STAINED_GLASS_PANE"
```

The <code>{quest}</code> variable represents the quest [[Creating a quest#name|display name]], with its formatting stripped. 

The <code>{questid}</code> variable represents the quest ID. 

== No started quests ==
:''<code>gui.no-started-quests</code>''
This is shown as the only item in the quest started menu if the player has not started any quests.
```yaml
gui:
  ...
  no-started-quests:
    name: "&c&lNo Started Quests"
    lore:
     - "&7Go start some!"
    type: "FEATHER"
```

== Quest cancel yes ==
:''<code>gui.quest-cancel-yes</code>''
Confirmation item in the quest cancel menu.
```yaml
gui:
  ...
  quest-cancel-yes:
    name: "&a&lConfirm Cancel"
    lore:
    - "&7Confirm you wish to cancel"
    - "&7this quest and lose all"
    - "&7progress."
    type: "GREEN_STAINED_GLASS_PANE"
```

== Quest cancel no ==
:''<code>gui.quest-cancel-no</code>''
Cancellation item in the quest cancel menu.
```yaml
gui:
  ...
  quest-cancel-no:
    name: "&c&lAbort Cancel"
    lore:
    - "&7Return to the quest menu."
    type: "RED_STAINED_GLASS_PANE"
```

== Quest cancel background ==
:''<code>gui.quest-cancel-background</code>''
Background item in the quest cancel menu.
```yaml
gui:
  ...
  quest-cancel-background:
    type: "GRAY_STAINED_GLASS_PANE"
```