Creating and editing quests can seem daunting at first, but the plugin is designed to be as easy as possible to use.

Here's some tips which may help you with your quest creation.

* '''The wiki is your Bible.''' This wiki details out how to create each type of quest and the many different types of quests you can create. There is a lot of information in this wiki (and it also took ages to write)!
* '''Use a dedicated editor, such as VSCode.''' This will make life much easier if you open the quests directory in VSCode, as you have access to all the files at once within one editor and you can easily copy / paste / replace across many files.
* '''Plan out your quests.''' It might be a wise idea to plan how you want to create your quests, what categories they will be in and what the requirements will be like.
* '''Back up the /quests/ and /playerdata/ folder.''' Things may go wrong sometimes. You may lose data. On top of whatever backup system you have, you should back up your quests folder and the playerdata folder, *especially* on a live server. If you use a database, ensure that is backed up too!
* '''Name your quests in a way which makes sense.''' Prefix each quest file with the name of the category for organisation. Name your tasks in a way which makes sense.
* '''Organise your quests into folders.''' The /quests/ directory is read recursively, which means you can sort your quests into folders. (It is advised you organise them by category, though you should be warned that file names must still be unique, no matter what directory it is under.)
* '''Follow the advice of the error checker.''' You will be informed of any issues in your config when you reload Quests, along with the exact location of the problem. Use this information!
* '''Be patient.''' Creating quests may be a bit boring, there might be a lot of copying and pasting, but once you get into the rhythm it can take you less than a few hours to get the plugin fully configured to how you want it to be.